April 21, 1990

Dear Damon,

This is my first letter trying to use Word Perfect. As you may find out, my words may not be perfect since I am just learning to type too. I've got a couple of tutorials so I can learn to type and use word. 

Don't be too disappointed if your mother won't let you come this summer. I'm sure that her relationship with Richard mandates that her and I keep on unfriendly terms. This is as I remember, but I could be wrong. Anyway, I don't see how a fight with your mother by either of us would be productive. After all, she holds the cards for now.

I can tell by our phone conversation that your mother always feels the way she does. I feel sorry that she just can't let go. I don't regret anything in my life. This includes having been married to her as well. This is with the exception of the feelings that linger after our divorce (some 15 years?).

I'm not entirely the same person she knew. I've gone through a lot of changes in the last few years. REMEMBER THIS: It's ok to be a dreamer and chase your dreams. They can come true. However, you got to hang on to reality. If you want your dreams to come true you have to be willing to sacrifice.

After chasing my dreams, I've realized fortunately not too late, the importance of an education. As you know I'm taking a home study course to get a degree as an Engineering technician. If I'm lucky, I should be an engineer by the time I'm 55. I'm proud of you to want to keep on learning after high school. I'll try to help you any way I can. I guess you know that.

Just to clear up any misconceptions about how much money I have you need to know what I've been doing. Last year was the first year since Lazywoods that I held down a regular bonafide job. My present job I started the Mon. after Thanksgiving last year. I got the job because of my mechanical background and the fact I was pursuing an education. My job at Beta technology in shipping, my first job last year, barely kept my head above water so to speak. Now I make a little more but I'm only at an entry level pay rate until my drawing skills improve. So I spend money almost like I'm still at Beta. That and the fact I'm not wasting money on booze or drugs, I've just started to save for the future which is a lot more promising than the path I was on when you moved to Hawaii.

Cutting loose of a major portion of my nestegg to get you home is worth it. However, peace in the family is more important in the long run. Your mom is afraid of losing you I guess. I can say I know how that feels. I thought I lost you but I'm so glad that wasn't a permanent situation.

I'm proud to have you as my son. I know that we'll spend lots of birthdays together so if we have to wait till next year to start well that will make your mom happy anyway.

As an alternative to a university you could establish residency at a considerable less cost at a junior college. They 

have many classes that are transferable especially general ed. classes which you need anyway. By coordinating the counselors at the J.C and the Univ. you can find out which classes can be transferred and target on those. Keep up those good grades and you might get a scholarship, who knows. Anyway your mom may change her mind after "OUR" birthday this year if you catch my drift.

I can't say I agree with your mom's attitude but some of it is deserved. Of course not all of it. However I'm not going to fight with her over this since you will be able to make your own decision without a court order next year. Patience is a virtue and a necessity. Besides I'm tired of fighting; time to go on to loving. It pays more in peace bucks. Besides I can't see eroding how you feel about your mom. I'm sure this would jeopardize that. Let her make her own decisions and find her own happiness in them.

Well, being long-winded as I am, I'm running out of breath, so I better end. Keep in touch. It doesn't cost that much to call collect. By the way, call my time not Hawaii time. AT&T just told me that I get billed at the time I receive the call on a collect call. Also they are sending me a Reach Out America brochure.

Look for the disks to be coming soon with decompression instructions on the games. Time to work around the house.

I love you Son,
Dad.
